Welcome back.
Let's keep going with our star of security and talk about code secrets and with code secrets.
It's quite simple actually.
There's two main things we want to focus on.
Environmental variables and commit history.
Let's take a look at both I have here our robo friends up.
Nothing too crazy.
Same old same old.
There are many times in our apps where we have important information that we might want to hide.
For example sometimes we have an API key like we do in the smart brain app with the clarify API that
API key allows us to send an HTP request to clarify and clarify for them to respond to us.
There's also times where we might want to connect to a database and we need a password and user and
perhaps there are other secrets that we want to have.
Or maybe even simply we just need to have extra variables.
What we call environmental variables in our development purposes.
Let me show you how this would work in roba France for example out of the box with create re-act up
we have access to let's console log this process dot and Dot node
and variable.
And this is saying in this process that we're running.
Give me the environment variable node.
And where did this come from.
This is just default that's set by Crais up.
If I save this and go back and let's take a look at our cons. We have our logger but we see that we
have the R log over here devolvement and this is done by default because internally Cray re-act app
gives us the node M version and when we run this it says ah we're running in devolvement let's set up
the app so that it's better for devolvement purposes when we actually run NPM run build old changed
this note environment to production so that it's able to say OK this is for production not for devolvement.
I'm going to minimize the code I'm going to do all these optimizations use libraries that are optimized
for productions and do all these things.
So environment variables are useful for example I could say that if node environment was production.
I want to add Google Analytics for example I guess say if Yeah if process no-God and
calls production then in this block
we get say run Google Analytics or anything we want and you'll see that a lot but let's get back to
security here.
We now have a way to inject the variables into this app from the outside world from the environment.
And by doing that we can inject passwords database passwords usernames and API keys or even variables
that we might need from the environment for our app to work.
And the way we can do this with create react up and don't worry I'll show you how to do it outside of
CCRI react up as well is to create a dot and 5 and file loops.
So we do dot the end the
and I've actually already created one over here.
And in this M-file I can add anything that I want with one condition.
We have to add the re-act app Prefect's and after this I can say whatever I want.
So let's say say hi equals to high.
No quotes here just the way it is.
Save it like that.
And now let's copy this.
And now Konsole logged the process thought anf re-act app say hi.
Except we don't need that equals now because that's the variable.
And I'm going to you might need to restart the server for this to work so we don't run NPM start again.
Let's wait for it to load.
And if I scroll up well I might have to save this first.
Silly me.
Let's rerun NPM start again.
Yes use a different port
and look at that.
I get high.
So using this I can securely add passwords to my app.
For example let me show you get help.
If we go to the smart brain project
look back at
let's go to the Smar brain boost API and in here if I go into controllers image you see how I have the
API key over here as your API key here.
Well I don't want to commit or show to the public my API key for clarify because let's say you're paying
for that API.
Well you don't want anybody to have access to it because if they do then anybody can access and use
your clarify count in here.
I could have done process.
Have your API key here and then every time I download this app I have my dot M-file and that already
has my passwords and my keys already set and I can just run it and that's how companies usually deploy
they deploy apps by having process thought Ampe dot some sort of a variable key and each place where
they deploy they have a environment file that is kept completely secret.
Remember most of the time these are secrets that you don't want the world to know.
So sometimes you see Dot private folder that has all your environment variables for production staging
local and different environments.
The idea is to keep these as secret as possible.
Now this does.
And if that comes with Crais react up is actually a package NAPM that anybody can use.
And underneath the hood this package is used by Create react up.
But even if you're not running create react up.
You can just simply use it by NPM installing.
And they have fairly good documentation.
You can see over here for DB user password and host I can use this.
And now I can use process thought Ampe DOB D-B password user and host.
And this is the recommended way of making sure that your app runs and knows secrets that shouldn't be
shared with anybody in a secure fashion.
Now those are environment variables.
And I want to show you something interesting and this something they should be careful of.
Get hub has a commit history whether you delete your comments or anything you're always going to have
this commit history so you'll never ever ever want to put up your secret files on to get help because
those are public.
So always use a dog.
Ignore file or never ever ever ever do any passwords or API keys and commit history.
Let me demonstrate why.
If you go to get help the search over here and again be responsible with this knowledge.
Don't use it for nefarious reasons that means bad reasons.
But if I type in remove Ru Let's try that again.
Remove password press enter and I go to commit.
Oh and this is under my search but let's go back to our side of this repo's a repository to the main
site and try that again.
Remove password
and go to commit.
I have 38 million commits that have.
Let's go to comments here.
Three hundred eighty nine thousand commits that have removed password wars and so I now see where people
have removed their database password
and this is for everybody to see.
That's not very good is it.
Again use this responsibly.
This is just a demonstration to show you you do not ever commit anything to get Hobb.
That is a secret and if you do by mistake since this commed result is going to be there you're going
to have to change your password secrets whatever they are immediately.
And there you have it.
Code secrets.
Be careful with them.
Hide them.
Protect them.
I'll see in the next one.
Babai.